devices everywhere in SAS these days
especially with the explosion of
LinkedIn there are hundreds and
thousands of experts everywhere telling
you how to do it in SAS in startups and
it's great and so many of these folks
are incredible voices that we learn from
but boy by the same token there are
certain consistent bits of just terrible
advice that folks tell you again and
again and you hear this both from folks
that haven't quite done it
folks that maybe had rough experiences
out there and also you sometimes hear
bad advice from the hyper successful
sometimes the folks that are so
successful so quickly also can sort of
give you wrong advice inadvertently if
you're doing pretty darn good but not
great so I wanted to dust off a saster
classic of the top 10 worst pieces of
SAS advice and there are truths to these
worst pieces of SAS advice and these are
advice and thinkings you'll get from
lots of people and I want to explore why
at least in my experience a lot of this
seemingly good advice is pretty bad okay
number one is
ask VCS for advice when you want money
ask for money when you want advice this
is terrible advice there's a germ of
Truth in it like a lot of this
um uh look to some extent if you have
the hottest startup in the world if you
are the hardest hottest generative AI
company in the world today if you have
the full package you can play some games
with investors you can tell them they
have one hour to invest you can tell
them even though you're pre-revenue to
log into your data room
um and grab the data and and make a make
an offer at a billion pre or more by
Friday sure but 99 of us aren't not that
99 of us are pretty good and not great
or unheard of or are Outsiders and not
insiders and don't have the perfect
package and understand the way Venture
Capital Works um most VCS only see a
handful of companies per month that are
truly great
um and then hundreds that are almost
that are almost that like there's a hint
of something interesting in the email or
the deck but not enough to go the extra
yard no one wants to has time to have
coffee with all those folks and meet
with all of those folks so be clear
don't play games
um if you again if you have the full
package if you check all 10 boxes then
be oblique ask for coffee ask for advice
when you really want money and money
when you really have advice you can kind
of trick investors into doing what you
want but if you're very good but not
obvious put it all out there have the
world's best cold email the world's best
deck customer references ready to go
don't play games on anything be clear on
how much money you want to raise when
and why and where you're at that will
increase the odds you get a deal done
um so again my advice is from 99 of us
when you want money ask for money tell
investors you want money so that they
know so they can go into that mode and
if you want advice you probably won't
get it from VCS but ask for advice okay
number two
and this is resonant on so many pieces
of disaster content over the years but
trust me the number two bit of terrible
advice that you will get and that some
of you will give is give the VP of sales
more time it never works folks it never
works um you cannot always expect a
great VP of sales to double sales in 30
days or 60 days or 90 days so it does
happen
but what you've got to see is progress
in one sales cycle you've got to see a
couple good hires brought in you've got
to see Improvement on some metrics
you've got to see like a big deal or two
that was hanging out there brought in
and closed you've got to see things
taken off your plate if in a sales cycle
things are not improving on several core
metrics and sales they never will they
never will the best VPS of sales and I
know a lot of folks don't want to hear
this and disagree with it but it's true
the best VPS of sales hit the ground
running they already know the product or
they learn it really really fast so
they're not lost for a quarter they
bring in at least a couple ringers with
them all the best VPS of sales are
constantly recruiting half the job of
VPS sales is recruiting so they know
when they go into a new role they've got
to have at least a couple ringers with
them a couple great ones so they always
bring in a couple people and they always
move out the low performers moving into
great folks moving out the two worst
always improves performance pretty
quickly and they get great really fast
they know sales processes they know
objections they know timings they know
fud so at least they bring in a few deal
that are in the pipe to close faster so
more time does not make a VPS sales
better now more time may may make a VP
of sales even better like you know if
you're if you are hoping that they would
come in and double sales and you just
see a little bit of improvement things
are a smidge better they're 10 better
they're 15 better that often compounds
they may make 10 or 15 or 20 Improvement
in sales in one quarter and then 30 and
then 50 and so on so you you can't
expect epic improvement from your VPS
sales but if you don't see it in one
cell cycle or less you've made a mish
higher and you just got a course correct
okay number three this is this is the
biggest misnomer and you got to bear
with me because like a lot of this
there's some truth in it but the number
three worst thing I hear from Founders
especially
good but not great or even mediocre
Founders or especially Founders that
have settled into slow growth or
mediocrity as we can't afford it
we can't afford it we can't afford a VP
of marketing we can't afford a VP of
sales we can't afford customer success
we can't afford a VP eventually it's
just not true folks the reason you're
saying that is you've never worked with
a great one now listen in the very early
days if you have no money
five hundred thousand seven hundred
thousand in cash you maybe you can't
afford it okay there are certain there
are certain just base salaries you can't
afford
but after even a couple million in error
you can afford any higher if they're
accretive now we've done this math on
saster before but I want to repeat it
because almost every day I talk to some
founder doing millions or even tens of
millions of Revenue and says they can't
afford something that is Roi positive if
you think you can't afford a VP of
engine let's say that VP Advantage wants
a 250 000 comp package
and you ship two more huge features that
let you close two big Enterprise deals
they've paid for themselves uh you don't
you don't really want to pay up for that
VP of sales but what if again they come
in instead of going from two to three
million this year you go to two to three
and a half or two to four they've more
than paid for themselves and so on
literally once you've done it once
you've seen it almost any 10x higher
almost any magical VC more than pays for
themselves and where they get expensive
is actually where you go to Junior and
they can't own it that actually costs
you money it doesn't save money or when
you settle for mediocre or not right
then they then they then hires really do
become a cost center but I have never in
SAS in B2B with the high margins we have
with the recurring Revenue we have with
the upsell opportunities that we
generally have I have never seen a great
VP of any role sales marketing customer
service edge or product not be a
creative you can always afford it find a
way for the great ones and don't settle
for the Mio Joker and whatever you do
don't settle for the junior higher okay
full point four that there's a huge
germa of Truth to but it's also a
terrible idea and terrible advice so
many times that it's done wrong point
four is let's add a freemium edition
let's add a cheaper Edition or let's go
plg it will solve our problems
I I hear this too many times going plg
is not a three magic letters that fixes
a broken business model
freemium similarly is not a marketing
strategy just adding a free edition does
not magically give you millions of users
to convert to paid
um and going super cheap and super low
end does not solve problems either
tacking on some new plg freemium low end
initiative to magically boost numbers
because you think it's cheaper than a
sales and marketing lead initiative is
the wrong way to do it the right way to
do it is to say look
things are going pretty well but we're
losing this segment of the market we're
going to invest and we're going to make
freemium or plg or a low end Edition a
top three corporate priority we're going
all in folks we're going on we know
what's going to work we have some day
that's going on and that often Works
um and in fact we are seeing more and
more companies add Freedom editions and
lastly and adding free HubSpot adding
free MailChimp adding free as Three
Mature examples actually allowed their
business to accelerate so I'm all for
adding a freemium Edition
um and I think it actually tends to make
the product better because it has to be
self-serve I'm all for adding a low end
edition if you have strong organic
demand but um you know freemium on its
own is not a go to market strategy and
plg is not a go to market strategy
either PL saying three letters of plg uh
and really just adding a crummy
self-serve Edition does not solve your
problems um and in fact all of this plg
stuff actually can add to cost it can
add to cost not only because there's
more software to build
but if plg creates a flood of low end
leads that distracts your sales team or
or distracts you from closing bigger and
bigger deals your cost of sales is often
higher if you look at the plg leaders in
SAS and Cloud they're wonderful
companies um but the the asanas and the
and the and and the others they're
they're um their cost of sales marketing
isn't lower than the folks that are
purely salesled okay so it's great plg
is great freemium's great super cheap is
great but they don't magically solve
your problems especially if you don't go
all in okay number five which we kind of
chatted about
but I want to hone in I don't need a
real VP of whatever yet especially VPN
marketing VP of end VP of sales and look
you always do I know it's it's slightly
redundant with uh with the can't you
can't afford it they're related but I've
never ever ever seen a junior marketer
get you the lead that ahead of marketing
would get I've never seen a very Junior
product person that can't manage
Engineers that can't does it hasn't
really shipped significant product to
Market do what you hope a vpa product
does it never works the junior product
person is your first product hire never
works the junior marketer might work a
tiny bit maybe you get some tweets
um and some instas but you never get
mqls and sqls and leads and the whole
thing you need the leader you need
someone that can own a number someone at
150k salary that will own the number
that will commit to getting new leads
commit to getting your Revenue commit to
shipping features is a heck of a lot
better than someone at 100 that can't
really commit to anything because they
haven't really done it before trust me
never settle low instead aim even higher
if you think you can't afford again a VP
of marketing you're thinking of going
for a junior higher or a marketing
manager don't worry about the cost and
said challenge yourself to find someone
truly great and you will find that
person is cheaper than the junior person
okay six bit of the sixth one is just a
bit of hubris that I hear it's a small
flag but it can scale over time which is
oh they're not a significant competitor
we beat them in every deal
uh when I hear that that's a sign of a
company that is delusional at some level
either a sales team or a marketing team
or that sometimes that's a little bit
okay but when I hear from Founders it's
very risky there's no way as a startup
you beat Salesforce or adobe or HubSpot
or datadog in every deal just slow it
down
um what you really want to see is you
scale is that your win rate goes down
typically because you're getting into
more markets it makes sense in the very
early days when you're feature poor but
you have one great 10x feature something
special something no one else has quite
figured out that you will win for a very
narrow ICP for folks that are doing a
certain type of sales and a certain
workflow and a certain geography at a
certain size it makes sense that you
could win that market immediately I mean
Shopify started with snowboard sales I
guess it was very good at that in the
beginning but um and so maybe in the
very early days you really will win
every deal because the the prospects
won't even bother with you unless this
brand new vendor no one's heard of truly
truly solves a problem no one else
solves but after that as you start to
compete with zendesk or or HubSpot or
or datadogger or whoever it is you
actually should start losing deals
because of course you're feature poor of
course you don't have everything that
those leaders have so when I hear that
we win every deal I just know it means
you're not doing any marketing you're
not doing any marketing and you're
likely not doing any outbound in sales
either outbound should be losing lots of
deals as you scale and marketing should
be that's a good sign it will put
pressure on your product team we'll put
pressure on you to build more software
more quickly and eventually you will go
over that that hump and you will close
your your win weights will will go up
but they should go down as you approach
10 or 20 million and then only only tail
up as you truly become a market leader
okay number seven
um of sort of
things that folks say in SAS that are
terrible advice or terrible ideas or
let's not bother with RFA rfps they're
too much work and we lose them all
anyway
well yeah you probably will for a long
time rfps request for proposals as you
go up market and Enterprise if you
haven't done it before a bunch of things
will drive you crazy first of all you
will need to do all the Enterprise
security stuff the sock 2 and whatever I
just spoke with a great repeat founder
who built a billion dollar company the
other day in his new startup uh he can't
penetrate Enterprise markets because
they didn't do the stock too well it
happens I mean you got to do this stuff
it's a pain in the ass and his
engineering team and product teams don't
want to do the sock too well that that's
life in the Enterprise
um and rfps are part of it too and and
request for proposals will bother you in
the beginning because they are a little
bit rigged generally speaking not always
not always but generally speaking what
an Enterprise vendor goes to the trouble
to put together a massive RFP when they
do it because they're required to but
two by the time they get there by the
time they spent all the time to issue
that RFP they probably know who they
want to go with and generally it's the
market leader generally it is the market
leader sometimes they use the RFP as a
cover to buy an emerging vendor
um because they need the the the the
backup to not choose the the market
leader but um
I would say eight to nine times out of
ten in an RFP the the default vendor is
likely chosen but
when you got into the deal you didn't
get into the deal for nothing you do
have a shot two you will get better at
them you will start to figure out where
you can win on the rfps three hire
someone to fill them out so your sales
team and engineering team don't have to
do it themselves you will eventually get
bigger and you will eventually steal a
deal in an RFP you will steal a deal
um no matter what it is part of going up
Market being compliant doing sock 2
doing rfps are part of closing bigger
deals and you just got to embrace them
and get good at them if you shrug your
shoulders and say you lose them anyway
you will lose them all anyway it becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy okay
0.88 bit of this is more complaint than
advice or observation rather than advice
um but boy this one's dangerous when I
hear from Founders early stage Founders
or even later uh the leads are there the
problems the sales team and you know we
hear that in the early stage and we've
actually heard that a lot the last 12 to
18 months as in many SAS categories
things have gotten harder the leads are
there but the problem is the sales team
now look I'm sure there's often a germ
of truth to this
um a mediocre sales team closes far far
less of what the average uh what a great
sales team does we've written about it
sasterric it's often at least 2x a great
sales team goes 2x what a mediocre sales
team can sometimes more and a truly
great rep can often close nine to ten
ten times what an average rep can it
really is true
but here's the thing if nothing if you
have leads and nothing's closing nothing
it's not the sales team because those
leads are good they're coming in they
they found something they like um at
least some of them should be closing
um and also if if the leads are fairly
consistent but sales is plummeting you
got to understand why is it a softness
and a hard Miss and a soft Miss is when
you hope to grow 20 faster last quarter
where you're increasing growth rate but
you're kind of short of where you hoped
um
ironically that's often true to the
sales team if the sales team can't grow
if sales team plateaus you that probably
is a sign you need a VP of sales you
need to reboot things
um a hard Miss is when things when the
same when things rapidly deteriorate
with the same team that's usually a
market condition
um anyhow I guess the The Meta point is
um a mediocre but consistent sales team
with good leads uh will generate some
Revenue so the leads aren't there the
problem with sales team sales is not
always the solution marketing has to be
great product has to be great okay
number nine
this is one you hear from a lot of
Founders that there is truth in but it's
it's an excuse it's an excuse to not go
big which is our Market is too small and
look of course that's true everyone
starts off with a tam that is too small
I mean Airbnb literally started off with
air mattresses and people's homes and
then it started off just renting a home
not condos and houses and what it is
today
um but here's the thing if you found if
you have a hundred customers of course
you can get another 100. horse there's
another hundred people in the world that
will buy you if it's 500 there's another
500. so you got to stair step it there
are cases where you absolutely outstrip
your Tam most market segments it gets
hard to get more than say ten thousand
customers in any Market segment if you
look across all the public SAS companies
most of them get multi-product well
before they have 10 000 customers in any
Market but the best Founders find ways
they find ways to expand the surface
area they find ways to go more
Enterprise more mid-market to add more
features to add more things a market is
too small is both the truism but it's
also an excuse
um there's always another customer like
the one you have okay point 10 and this
one is slightly redundant with the
earlier points of I can't afford it
um or
um or I don't need a real one but it's
so important which is just that we don't
need a VP we don't need a VP of sales we
don't need a VP of engineering
especially we don't need a VP of product
we don't need a VP of marketing we don't
need a VP of customer success
sometimes Founders don't think they can
afford a VP
um and we just chatted about that you
always can afford it a great VP is
always cheaper than a mediocre manager
for fifty percent less
um but when folks think they don't need
a VP when especially they think they
don't need a VP of product or engineer
and I have this conversation with so
many Founders as they begin to scale say
I don't need a VP product I've got a
junior product manager I don't need a VP
of engineering my CTO can handle
everything
look the reason you're saying that if
you've never worked with a great one
trust me on this if you don't think you
need any of the VPS sales engineering
marketing product CS go meet with 10
great ones great ones because what you
realize is the great ones just let you
scale you a great so many great ctOS
that I love think they don't need VP of
engineering well how much time are you
spending on code review how much time
are you spending refactoring the code
base how much of your time will you
spend fixing old crummy code that you
wrote or thing that didn't scale it's
great that you know how to do that but
someone else can do that if you're the
CTO go do the creative stuff go build
the Next Generation stuff that no one
could understand bring in a VP of
engineering that can do all the the the
the routine parts of the job that VP of
engineering they can spend half their
time recruiting and you will just fly
similarly I see so many Founders that
think they can be the VP of product at
10 15 20 million in AR you can't you
don't have 50 hours a week to be vpa
product
and what happens is you come up on 10 or
more error is that the product gets so
complicated the Partnerships get so
complicated the way you mix up features
becomes so complicated you don't have
time and you don't have time to follow
up and so you think you're this great
product strategist but I will tell you
Founders as the product gets bigger more
complex you get to be a worse and worse
VP of product there's too much going on
it's too complicated too many workflows
too many customers using your product
too many different ways you can't keep
shooting from the hip so folks that
don't think they need a great VP of
product as they cross five eight ten
million Revenue just haven't worked with
a great one same with all of them it's
the Insight all of them all of these VPS
a great one is always creative and if
you just don't think you need one go
meet a great one they will almost always
transform what you're doing good luck
everybody go forth and Conquer get all
the great advice
um just maybe listen to two different
people on it
um and uh and realize there's so much
out there understand where the biases
come from and what it really takes to go
big